# Immersive-Physical-Therapy-Experience-in-Virtual-Reality
The virtual reality Unity .apk file was too large to be uploaded to GitHub but can be accessed here: https://drive.google.com/file/d/1woRTZqLhoUdddlRdeFIBPMOnDK4IK6ME/view?usp=share_link

During my senior year of high school, I worked as a computer science research intern for the Graphics & Virtual Reality Research Group at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. Under the guidance of Prof. Henry Fuchs, I designed and developed an independent project that involved creating an immersive physical therapy experience in virtual reality (VR) using depth cameras, modeling and animation software, and an Oculus Quest. I found the process of designing and creating this interface very exciting because I could use creativity in animating the human model, and I could visualize the improvements as I made adjustments in code. I gained programming skills in Python, C++, and C# when creating a 3D model of the therapist and using pose data and image reconstruction methods to apply movements to the model. And I used organization skills while designing the user interface for patients to interact with the therapist in VR. 

Within the project, I also programmed a dynamic time warping algorithm that compared the patient’s performance of the exercises to the therapist’s and outputted a mathematically calculated accuracy score. As my first exposure to how AI translates to real-world healthcare settings, it was fascinating to see how the algorithm could accurately compare the two sequences despite variations in speed. 

The project primarily consisted of independent work that allowed me to gain confidence in my skills and improve my problem-solving abilities. And it was really rewarding to see how I could apply the technical skills and concepts I learn in my classes to other fields. But most of all, I really enjoyed the opportunity to work with and learn from experts in the field. In addition to learning coding skills, developing algorithms, and applying these concepts to real-world situations, the experience advanced my written and oral communication skills. Writing in a lab notebook taught me how to document my successes and failures with a constructive mindset, and weekly meetings with my mentors taught me how to identify important points and communicate my progress concisely. 

One of the biggest lessons that will stick with me going forward is Dr. Fuch’s analogy of a Ferrari without wheels: “It is better to drive a run-down Toyota than a Ferrari without wheels.” In other words, Dr. Fuchs advised me to start with the basics, build the foundation, and gradually continue advancing the project by adding building blocks to the base. At the beginning of the project, I often spent too much time continuously advancing one aspect of the project while ignoring the others, leaving me without a working project. But as I reminded myself of this analogy throughout the year, I gained a better understanding of the role of each component in the project and saw the results of this as I built a usable VR experience. As I continue with college classes and other internships, I try to apply this to the projects I work on and I have found myself becoming more productive already.

It was really valuable  to understand the relevance and application of this project: allowing physical therapists and patients to connect virtually during socially-distanced times. Such VR projects could change physician-patient interactions. I also learned about how Prof. Fuchs’ group created an immersive surgical training experience in VR. Imagine watching a rare surgery with annotations in 3D space! This could fundamentally transform medical education. Using CS to impact education excites me because it provides real-time feedback in a realistic but safe environment, and I want to continue learning more about translating CS principles to healthcare applications. 
